# Preface

How to proceed? More than 30 years of professional work in the software industry
has shown me success and failure in tackling large, ill-defined problems.
Today's world contains an abundance of such problems, surveillance capitalism
and invasive data harvesting only one among many. Our industry, though young,
has discovered and honed many tools and techniques to deal with such issues. Tin
Feathers aim is to apply these to find a way forward, a way to nurture this
nascent social conscience &iota; find in myself, and perhaps awaken one in
my peers.


## Mathematically informed software engineering

&iota; am not a practicing mathematician; while my heart lies in mathematics,
&iota; do not prove theorems for a living. Furthermore, throughout my career
&iota; have seen many programmers more capable than &iota;. &iota; do, however,r
understand more mathematics than most programmers &iota; meet and find &iota; am
a better programmer than most mathematicians &iota; run across. Tin Feathers,
then, is a public experiment in the application of mathematically informed
software engineering principles to larger problems of social engineering.


The problem is to mobilize the wasted talents and energies of the information
technology community to achieve a modest social goal, thereby providing a proof
of consept of how to tackle latger problems.


## The repository

Communication is a necessary, but not sufficient, component of shared action.


Communication occurs ultimately between individuals. A primary rule of the
speaker is to know the audience. To maintain any semblance of credibility
constrains the orator to speak only of personal knowledge. Limited time and
attention demand brevity.


So &iota; resort to a channel programmers use to collaboratively develop work:
the public code repository. This offers a means for others to see, reflect upon,
and offer feedback on these ideas. Part observation, part analysis, part
education, part proposal it is the initial attack of a large, ill-defined,
unstructured, complicated problem. It is the start of a software project.


It captures these ideas raw and exposes them in a public forum before &iota;
lose the courage to speak them aloud. These first drafts are the necessary,
albeit embarassing start. The real work lies in the refactoring ahead.
