# By Consent of the Governed

Imagine.

Every image. Every frame captured by every surveillance camera around the world.
Every one conatining a Tin Feather. Small. Modest. Unassuming, but there.
Letting them know we know they're there. We know they are watching, tracking,
snooping.


We risk losing not just free, Libre software. We risk losing Liberty itself.

They burned the Library of Alexandria. Well, the fire we now face may not burn
so visibly but it consumes more than papyrus, scroll, and tablet. We risk losing
our access to the collective knowledge of the enitre human race.


## In culture

Declaration of Independence - preamble, right after Life, Liberty and the
pursuit of Happiness."

```
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that
they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among
these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.

That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving
their just powers from the consent of the governed, That whenever any Form of
Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to
alter or to abolish it, and to institute new Government, laying its foundation
on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem
most likely to effect their Safety and Happiness.  Prudence, indeed, will
dictate that Governments long established should not be changed for light and
transient causes; and accordingly all experience hath shewn, that mankind are
more disposed to suffer, while evils are sufferable, than to right themselves
by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed. But when a long train of
abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same Object evinces a design to
reduce them under absolute Despotism, it is their right, it is their duty, to
throw off such Government, and to provide new Guards for their future security.
```

Fight Club.

Even slipped into __5th Element__ when Korben Dallas tries to kiss Leeloo.
